Hey
you
in this episode we're going to take an
intimate look at the quarter scale Rico
Indy car Rico built quite a few
different models including Grand
Nationals and off-road truck gtp
off-road buggy and of course the Rico
Indy car in today's market the Reiko
Indy car is probably the most valuable
and desirable car out of their lineup
this is a car that was built and
developed and elating these and Rico is
actually the second manufacturer to
release a quarter scale Indy car
the first being the race HEC defiant
they were the first to come out with an
Indy car and then Ranko came out with
theirs new era eventually came out with
an Indy car and B and L we're working on
an Indy car prototype as well that was a
beautiful car that just never made it
out into production so what we're going
to do today is we're going to take this
down and take a look at it and see
what's under the hood so here we have
the car these cars came with a black
polycarbonate body shell from the
factory was a two-piece body as the main
body piece and it also had a front nose
cone that was separate that was easily
placed if you have gotten into an
accident
the front end of front wing in the rear
wing these are standard wings that came
with the car and the tiger whizzed on
this car would be a 4-inch tire in the
back with a 3-inch wide tire in the
front on this model I actually have
chrome plated plastic wheels that was a
factory option through Rico and these
cars generally came with just a plain
plastic wheel another thing I'd like to
add is the diameter of these wheels
they're four inch diameter wheel pretty
much all domestic cars came with this
standard which was a four inch diameter
wheel and that translates through 16
inches in a full-sized wheedle some
European manufacturers they made a 5
inch diameter wheel which would
translate to a 20 inch wheel here we
have the body opera more looking at the
front end of the car and probably one of
the first things you'll notice is the
absence of shocks well they're there but
they're inboard shocks which means that
there is an arm here connect
into the upper a-arm that comes down
attached to a cantilever which in turn
presses up on to a shock creating and
suspension another thing you'll notice
is the front end of this car is pretty
shiny and that was something that was
done afterwards when you bought a car
like this it would come with a arms that
looked like this which were ass and cast
aluminum part pretty gritty feeling it
takes a lot of sanding and polishing to
accomplish this look but when done
properly as you can see it's a very nice
upgrade the engine of choice for all
Renko models was as inoa 22 and a half
CC g 2 d engine as you can see there's
also a header and tuned pipe system this
came standard on all the Indy cars but
this was also an option available on
many of their other models here we're
looking at the back end of the car where
the dis brake is it's a single disc
brake mounted on to the drive shaft and
there's an arm that articulates the
brake there would be a servo mounted
here that would pull on the brake arm to
slow down the car the rear end this is a
quick change rear end which means you
can remove this cover change out the
gears and change it for any type of gear
ratio that you'd want to optimize the
car for just about any type of track
condition these rear ends were used in
virtually all Ranko cars with the
exception of their Sidewinder model that
was belt driven another thing that's
unique to this model is the way the
gearbox is attached to the engine which
we're going to take a look at my bare
chasis model so you can take a look at
that one of the unique features with the
rig go quick change gearbox is that it
mounts directly to the engine that
gearbox has a clutch bell housing built
directly into the rear end which
eliminates the need for a separate
cultural housing to a drive shaft to the
rear end itself now in the Indy car
they've separated the gearbox from the
engine to give this vehicle proper
weight distribution they've accomplished
this by attaching a clutch bell housing
with a dog bone that comes down here to
a drive cup that runs the quick
change rear end this is a very unique
setup for the Reiko cars and there's
only two vehicles that they use this in
which was the Indy car in the super
modifier too